---
layout: post
title: Welcoming 2020
tags: [plan, phd, research]
image: /assets/blogs/2020.jpg
description: >
  Starting the new year right.
---


It's a new year and a new decade. In this post, I would like to list out some of the things that I have planned out for this year. After reflecting on the previous year 2019, I realized that there are so many things that I still want to achieve. I know I have to start now because my second year of PhD life just kicks off. These small but impactful targets are important ingredients to master the recipe of becoming a artificial intelligence researcher. I also came to a realization that the Doctoral degree that will be conferred to me in 3 years time (or so I hope) comes with huge responsibilities such as conveying the right knowledge and message to the ones that I will work with in the future or when I am being asked a question or a piece of advice. In other words, really I have to be the expert in the field so that I could give worthy advice to those who lack the judgement and intuition.

**Contents**:
* 
{:toc}

## More directed research
As my PhD Qualifying Exam (PQE) is drawing near, I need to consolidate my research results. In my first year, I have been exploring different topics including information bottleneck, lottery ticket hypothesis, randomly wired neural network, deep image reconstruction as well as roles of intermediate layers. Although I believe that they are critical to understanding deep learning better, I have chosen to focus on the stability analysis of neural network as my research for this year.

Since my plan after graduation is to work in industry, I try to structure my PhD thesis such that it is one big project consisting of several small but related projects (ideally three of them). Nevertheless, I would have to go deep enough for each of the project such that it is worthy enough of a paper. My plan is to understand deep learning from three different perspectives: physics, information theory and neuroscience. For 2020, I would focus my research on understanding deep learning from physics point of view. Hopefully, I would be able to publish a paper on that and go for a conference this year.

## Brushing up on machine learning basics
To be honest, I have only started gaining an understanding of Machine Learning (ML) in my first year of PhD. As I have been learning from different sources, I am not yet fully confident about the fundamentals. Hence, this year I would like to motivate myself to brush up my basics as well as practise the exploratory data analysis part. I will also take this chance to track what I learn and record all the relevant resources that I use in case I would need to refer to them again in the future.

## More practical applications
Similarly, I started coding not too long ago as my undergraduate work is mainly theoretical. Therefore, I would need to improve my coding skill. I would like to apply what I have learnt on more practical real-life applications. I believe that you learn best when you actually apply the skills. This could be in the form of short-term projects, one-off data analysis on practical cases, or even kaggle competitions. Hopefully, by end of the year, my coding skills would have skyrocketed.

## Keeping up with latest research in the field
As deep learning field is advancing rapidly, there are lots of papers being published every single day. In order to keep up with what's going on in the field, I have to be constantly reading these papers in order to be aware of the latest research. I will not only be reading recent papers but also older ones so as to gain the knowledge of great research ideas from the past decade. I believe this will definitely benefit my research in the future.

## Areas to explore
Aside from machine learning, there are several other areas that I would like to explore this year:
- game development
- web development
- database systems
- big data analysis
